The p70 ribosomal S6 kinases (p70 ribosomal S6 kinase 1 and p70 ribosomal S6 kinase 2) are downstream targets of the mechanistic target of rapamycin signalling pathway. p70 ribosomal S6 kinase 1 specifically has demonstrated functions in regulating cell size in Drosophila and in insulin-sensitive cell populations in mammals. Prior studies demonstrated that the mechanistic target of the rapamycin pathway promotes oligodendrocyte differentiation and developmental myelination; however, how the immediate downstream targets of mechanistic target of rapamycin regulate these processes has not been elucidated. Here, we tested the hypothesis that p70 ribosomal S6 kinase 1 regulates oligodendrocyte differentiation during developmental myelination and remyelination processes in the CNS. We demonstrate that p70 ribosomal S6 kinase activity peaks in oligodendrocyte lineage cells at the time when they transition to myelinating oligodendrocytes during developmental myelination in the mouse spinal cord. We further show p70 ribosomal S6 kinase activity in differentiating oligodendrocytes in acute demyelinating lesions induced by lysophosphatidylcholine injection or by experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in mice. In demyelinated lesions, the expression of the p70 ribosomal S6 kinase target, phosphorylated S6 ribosomal protein, was transient and highest in maturing oligodendrocytes. Interestingly, we also identified p70 ribosomal S6 kinase activity in oligodendrocyte lineage cells in active multiple sclerosis lesions. Consistent with its predicted function in promoting oligodendrocyte differentiation, we demonstrate that specifically inhibiting p70 ribosomal S6 kinase 1 in cultured oligodendrocyte precursor cells significantly impairs cell lineage progression and expression of myelin basic protein. Finally, we used zebrafish to show in vivo that inhibiting p70 ribosomal S6 kinase 1 function in oligodendroglial cells reduces their differentiation and the number of myelin internodes produced. These data reveal an essential function of p70 ribosomal S6 kinase 1 in promoting oligodendrocyte differentiation during development and remyelination across multiple species. p70 S6 kinase (S6K) activity in oligodendroglia corresponds to developmental myelination and remyelination in rodents and is present in active lesions of multiple sclerosis. S6K1 promotes the expression of the myelin basic protein in rodent oligodendrocyte precursor cells and regulates the number of myelin internodes in zebrafish.