Background: Inefficient differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) is one of the significant pathological obstacles of myelin repair and provides an essential therapeutic target against behavioral dysfunction in various neurodegenerative diseases, especially in secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS). Ginsenoside Rg1 (Rg1) has traditionally been recognized as a protector of neuronal damages, preventing its degeneration. Purpose: We investigated the effects of Rg1 on myelin regeneration-mediated by OPCs and its therapeutic significance in SPMS. Methods: A cuprizone (CPZ) model was established and then administered with Rg1 specific for evaluations of functional recovery and remyelination. In vitro, the primary mouse OPCs were isolated and cultured for examining their ability of myelin repair. Furthermore, a chronic experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model was utilized to assess the therapeutic value on SPMS. Results: We found that Rg1 promoted functional recovery of the demyelinated mice, including spatial memory, motor function, and anxiety-like behavior. Histologically, Rg1 enhanced myelin-genesis as proven by myelin staining and microstructures of myelin observed by transmission electron microscope. Furthermore, Rg1 significantly increased Olig2+ oligodendrocyte lineage cells in callosum, implying that the pro-remyelination effect of Rg1 was closely correlated to the enhanced differentiation of OPCs. We further demonstrated that Rg1 increased the survival and proliferation of OPCs as well as induced maturation in oligodendrocytes (OLs). Molecular analysis showed that Rg1 transduced the pro-differentiation signaling programmed by the GSK3 beta/ beta-Catenin pathway. Notably, relying on its pro-remyelination effects, Rg1 ameliorated severity and histopathology of EAE disease. Conclusion: By paving the way for OPCs differentiation, Rg1 could maintain the integrity of myelin and is a promising candidate for functional recovery in demyelinating diseases.