Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory and degenerative disease of central nervous system (CNS). Aging is the most significant risk factor for the progression of MS. Dietary modulation (such as ketogenic diet) and caloric restriction, can increase ketone bodies, especially beta-hydroxybutyrate (BHB). Increased BHB has been reported to prevent or improve age-related disease. The present studies were performed to understand the therapeutic effect and potential mechanisms of exogenous BHB in cuprizone (CPZ)-induced demyelinating model. In this study, a continuous 35 days CPZ mouse model with or without BHB was established. The changes of behavior function, pathological hallmarks of CPZ, and intracellular signal pathways in mice were detected by Open feld test, Morris water maze, RT-PCR, immuno-histochemistry, and western blot. The results showed that BHB treatment improved behavioral performance, prevented myelin loss, decreased the activation of astrocyte as well as microglia, and up-regulated the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor in both the corpus callosum and hippocampus. Meanwhile, BHB treatment increased the number of MCT1(+) cells and APC(+) oligodendrocytes. Furthermore, the treatment decreased the expression of HDAC3, PARP1, AIF and TRPA1 which is related to oligodendrocyte (OL) apoptosis in the corpus callosum, accompanied by increased expression of TrkB. This leads to an increased density of doublecortin (DCX)(+) neuronal precursor cells and mature NeuN(+) neuronal cells in the hippocampus. As a result, BHB treatment effectively promotes the generation of PDGF-Ra+ (oligodendrocyte precursor cells, OPCs), Sox2(+) cells and GFAP(+) (astrocytes), and decreased the production of GFAP(+) TRAP1(+) cells, and Oligo2(+) TRAP1(+) cells in the corpus callosum of mouse brain. Thus, our results demonstrate that BHB treatment efficiently supports OPC differentiation and decreases the OLs apoptosis in CPZ-intoxicated mice, partly by down-regulating the expression of TRPA1 and PARP, which is associated with the inhibition of the p38-MAPK/JNK/JUN pathway and the activation of ERK1/2, PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling, supporting BHB treatment adjunctive nutritional therapy for the treatment of chronic demyelinating diseases, such as multiple sclerosis (MS).