Alzheimer's disease (AD) animal studies have reported that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have therapeutic effects; however, clinical trial results are controversial. Neprilysin (NEP) is the main cleavage enzyme of beta-amyloid (A beta), which plays a major role in the pathology and etiology of AD. We evaluated whether transplantation of MSCs with NEP gene modification enhances the therapeutic effects in an AD animal model and then investigated these pathomechanisms. We manufactured NEP gene-enhanced human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hUC-MSCs) and intravenously transplanted them in A beta(1-42)-injected AD animal models. We compared the differences in behavioral tests and immunohistochemical assays between four groups: normal, A beta(1-42) injection, naive hUC-MSCs, and NEP-enhanced hUC-MSCs. Both naive and NEP-enhanced hUC-MSC groups showed significant improvements in memory compared to the A beta(1-42) injection group. There was no significant difference between naive and NEP-enhanced hUC-MSC groups. There was a significant decrease in Congo red, BACE-1, GFAP, and Iba-1 and a significant increase in BDNF, NeuN, and NEP in both hUC-MSC groups compared to the A beta(1-42) injection group. Among them, BDNF, NeuN, GFAP, Iba-1, and NEP showed more significant changes in the NEP-enhanced hUC-MSC group than in the naive group. After stem cell injection, stem cells were not found. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) were equally observed in the hippocampus in the naive and NEP-enhanced hUC-MSC groups. However, the EVs of NEP-enhanced hUC-MSCs contained higher amounts of NEP as compared to the EVs of naive hUC-MSCs. Thus, hUC-MSCs affect AD animal models through stem cell-released EVs. Although there was no significant difference in cognitive function between the hUC-MSC groups, NEP-enhanced hUC-MSCs had superior neurogenesis and anti-inflammation properties compared to naive hUC-MSCs due to increased NEP in the hippocampus by enriched NEP-possessing EVs. NEP gene-modified MSCs that release an increased amount of NEP within EVs may be a promising therapeutic option in AD treatment.