Background Roles for extracellular vesicles (EVs) enriched with micro-RNAs (miRNAs) have been proposed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis, leading to the discovery of blood miRNAs as AD biomarkers. However, the diagnostic utility of specific miRNAs is not consistent. This study aimed to discover blood miRNAs that are differentially expressed in Korean AD patients, evaluate their clinical performance, and investigate their role in amyloidogenesis. Methods We discovered miRNAs differentially expressed in AD (N = 8) from cognitively normal participants (CN, N = 7) or Parkinson's disease (PD) patients (N = 8). We evaluated the clinical performance of these miRNAs in plasma of subgroup (N = 99) and in plasma EVs isolated from the total cohort (N = 251). The effects of miRNAs on amyloidogenesis and on the regulation of their target genes were investigated in vitro. Results Among 17 upregulated and one downregulated miRNAs in AD (>twofold), miR-122-5p, miR-210-3p, and miR-590-5p were differentially expressed compared with CN or PD. However, the diagnostic performance of the selected plasma or EV miRNAs in total participants were limited (area under the curve < 0.8). Nevertheless, levels of 3 miRNAs in plasma or plasma EVs of participants who were amyloid positron emission tomography (A beta-PET) positive were significantly higher than those from the A beta-PET negative participants (p < .05). The selected miRNAs induced A beta production (p < .05) through activation of beta-cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (CTF-beta; p < .01), and downregulated their target genes (ADAM metallopeptidase domain 10, Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and Jagged canonical notch ligand 1; p < .05), which was further supported by pathway enrichment analysis of target genes of the miRNAs. Conclusion In conclusion, despite of the limited diagnostic utility of selected miRNAs as plasma or plasma EV biomarkers, the discovered miRNAs may play a role in amyloidogenesis during AD onset and progression.