Blommer et al. report that the protein cargo of neuronal extracellular vesicles could serve as a biomarker for cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease: immunoassays reveal differences in alpha-synuclein, phosphorylated tau and proteins associated with insulin signalling in patients with versus without cognitive impairment. Besides motor symptoms, many individuals with Parkinson's disease develop cognitive impairment perhaps due to coexisting alpha-synuclein and Alzheimer's disease pathologies and impaired brain insulin signalling. Discovering biomarkers for cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease could help clarify the underlying pathogenic processes and improve Parkinson's disease diagnosis and prognosis. This study used plasma samples from 273 participants: 103 Parkinson's disease individuals with normal cognition, 121 Parkinson's disease individuals with cognitive impairment (81 with mild cognitive impairment, 40 with dementia) and 49 age- and sex-matched controls. Plasma extracellular vesicles enriched for neuronal origin were immunocaptured by targeting the L1 cell adhesion molecule, then biomarkers were quantified using immunoassays. alpha-Synuclein was lower in Parkinson's disease compared to control individuals (P = 0.004) and in cognitively impaired Parkinson's disease individuals compared to Parkinson's disease with normal cognition (P < 0.001) and control (P < 0.001) individuals. Amyloid-beta(42) did not differ between groups. Phosphorylated tau (T181) was higher in Parkinson's disease than control individuals (P = 0.003) and in cognitively impaired compared to cognitively normal Parkinson's disease individuals (P < 0.001) and controls (P < 0.001). Total tau was not different between groups. Tyrosine-phosphorylated insulin receptor substrate-1 was lower in Parkinson's disease compared to control individuals (P = 0.03) and in cognitively impaired compared to cognitively normal Parkinson's disease individuals (P = 0.02) and controls (P = 0.01), and also decreased with increasing motor symptom severity (P = 0.005); serine312-phosphorylated insulin receptor substrate-1 was not different between groups. Mechanistic target of rapamycin was not different between groups, whereas phosphorylated mechanistic target of rapamycin trended lower in cognitively impaired compared to cognitively normal Parkinson's disease individuals (P = 0.05). The ratio of alpha-synuclein to phosphorylated tau181 was lower in Parkinson's disease compared to controls (P = 0.001), in cognitively impaired compared to cognitively normal Parkinson's disease individuals (P < 0.001) and decreased with increasing motor symptom severity (P < 0.001). The ratio of insulin receptor substrate-1 phosphorylated serine312 to insulin receptor substrate-1 phosphorylated tyrosine was higher in Parkinson's disease compared to control individuals (P = 0.01), in cognitively impaired compared to cognitively normal Parkinson's disease individuals (P = 0.02) and increased with increasing motor symptom severity (P = 0.003). alpha-Synuclein, phosphorylated tau181 and insulin receptor substrate-1 phosphorylated tyrosine contributed in diagnostic classification between groups. These findings suggest that both alpha-synuclein and tau pathologies and impaired insulin signalling underlie Parkinson's disease with cognitive impairment. Plasma neuronal extracellular vesicles biomarkers may inform cognitive prognosis in Parkinson's disease.